https://relational.fit.cvut.cz/dataset/Financial



  
PKDD'99 Discovery Challenge
Guide to the Financial Data Set

   
Domain

Once upon a time, there was a bank offering services to private persons. The services include managing of accounts, offering loans, etc. The bank wants to improv their services by finding interesting groups of clients (e.g. to differentiate between good and bad clients). The bank managers have only vague idea, who is good client (whom to offer some additional services) and who is bad client (whom to watch carefully to minimize the bank looses). Fortunately, the bank stores data about their clients, the accounts (transactions within several months), the loans already granted, the credit cards issued So the bank managers hope to find some answers (and questions as well) by analyzing this data.
 
Task description

The discovery challenge task is to

    define a problem which can help the bank to improve their services (e.g. define the notion of good or bad client, suggest new/current service that can be offered to a group of clients etc.); from the KDD point of view the problem can be classification, prediction or description,
    show how KDD can be used to solve the problem (even if the results are not much significant from the KDD point of view, they can be important for the bank). 

Each participant can use any KDD techniques and discover as much knowledge as possible. Ideally each approach will include 1. proposed goals, 2. details of datamining, and 3. demonstrated use of the results. Since the results of discovery may be unexpected, the applications may be different from those initially proposed.
 
Data description

The data about the clients and their accounts consist of following relations:

    relation account (4500 objects in the file ACCOUNT.ASC) - each record describes static characteristics of an account,
    relation client (5369 objects in the file CLIENT.ASC) - each record describes characteristics of a client,
    relation disposition (5369 objects in the file DISP.ASC) - each record relates together a client with an account,
    relation permanent order (6471 objects in the file ORDER.ASC) - each record describes characteristics of a payment order,
    relation transaction (1056320 objects in the file TRANS.ASC) - each record describes one transaction on an account,
    relation loan (682 objects in the file LOAN.ASC) - each record describes a loan granted for a given account,
    relation credit card (892 objects in the file CARD.ASC) - each record describes a credit card issued to an account,
    relation demographic data (77 objects in the file DISTRICT.ASC) - each record describes demographic characteristics of a district. 

Each account has both static characteristics (e.g. date of creation, address of the branch) given in relation "account" and dynamic characteristics (e.g. payments debited or credited, balances) given in relations "permanent order" and "transaction". Relation "client" describes characteristics of persons who can manipulate with the accounts. One client can have more accounts, more clients can manipulate with single account; clients and accounts are related together in relation "disposition". Relations "loan" and "credit card" describe some services which the bank offers to its clients; more credit cards can be issued to an account, at most one loan can be granted for an account. Relation "demographic data" gives some publicly available information about the districts (e.g. the unemployment rate); additional information about the clients can be deduced from this.
 
Relation account
item	meaning	remark
account_id	identification of the account	
district_id	location of the branch	
date	date of creating of the account	in the form YYMMDD
frequency	frequency of issuance of statements 	"POPLATEK MESICNE" stands for monthly issuance

"POPLATEK TYDNE" stands for weekly issuance

"POPLATEK PO OBRATU" stands for issuance after transaction
     
Relation client

item	meaning	remark
client_id	record identifier	
birth number	identification of client 	the number is in the form YYMMDD for men,
the number is in the form YYMM+50DD for women,

where YYMMDD is the date of birth
district_id	address of the client	
     
Relation disposition
item	meaning	remark
disp_id	record identifier	
client_id	identification of a client	
account_id	identification of an account	
type	type of disposition (owner/user) 	only owner can issue permanent orders and ask for a loan
     
Relation permanent order
item	meaning	remark
order_id	record identifier	
account_id	account, the order is issued for	
bank_to	bank of the recipient 	each bank has unique two-letter code
account_to	account of the recipient	
amount	debited amount	
K_symbol	characterization of the payment 	"POJISTNE" stands for insurrance payment

"SIPO" stands for household

"LEASING" stands for leasing

"UVER" stands for loan payment

     
Relation Transaction

item	meaning	remark
trans_id	record identifier	
account_id	account, the transation deals with	
date	date of transaction	in the form YYMMDD
type	+/- transaction 	"PRIJEM" stands for credit

"VYDAJ" stands for withdrawal
operation	mode of transaction 	"VYBER KARTOU" credit card withdrawal

"VKLAD" credit in cash

"PREVOD Z UCTU" collection from another bank

"VYBER" withdrawal in cash

"PREVOD NA UCET" remittance to another bank
amount	amount of money	
balance	balance after transaction
k_symbol	characterization of the transaction 	"POJISTNE" stands for insurrance payment

"SLUZBY" stands for payment for statement

"UROK" stands for interest credited

"SANKC. UROK" sanction interest if negative balance

"SIPO" stands for household

"DUCHOD" stands for old-age pension

"UVER" stands for loan payment

bank	bank of the partner 	each bank has unique two-letter code
account	account of the partner	
     
Relation Loan
item	meaning	remark
loan_id	record identifier	
account_id	identification of the account	
date	date when the loan was granted	in the form YYMMDD
amount	amount of money	
duration	duration of the loan	
payments	monthly payments	
status	status of paying off the loan 	'A' stands for contract finished, no problems,

'B' stands for contract finished, loan not payed,

'C' stands for running contract, OK so far,

'D' stands for running contract, client in debt
     
Relation Credit card
item	meaning	remark
card_id	record identifier	
disp_id	disposition to an account	
type	type of card 	possible values are "junior", "classic", "gold"
issued	issue date	in the form YYMMDD
     
Relation Demographic data
item 	meaning 	remark
A1 = district_id	district code	
A2	district name	
A3	region	
A4	no. of inhabitants	
A5	no. of municipalities with inhabitants < 499	
A6	no. of municipalities with inhabitants 500-1999	
A7	no. of municipalities with inhabitants 2000-9999	
A8	no. of municipalities with inhabitants >10000	
A9	no. of cities	
A10	ratio of urban inhabitants	
A11	average salary	
A12	unemploymant rate '95	
A13	unemploymant rate '96	
A14	no. of enterpreneurs per 1000 inhabitants	
A15	no. of commited crimes '95	
A16	no. of commited crimes '96	

 
This database was prepared by Petr Berka and Marta Sochorova
